---
layout: page
title: "Options Dialog Reference"
category: doc
date: 2014-12-11 21:33:40
---

### Character Tables

#### Name

The name of the table as displayed in the main panel

#### Path to Character Declarations

The path to the XML file or web service providing the TEI character declarations

#### Glyph Renderer

Specifies which renderer to use when displaying glyphs of this table

- `bitmap`: Renders a bitmap image based on the value of the `@url` attribute of
 the character's `graphic` child element.
- `vector`: Renders a glyph vector from a system font. 
The relative size of all glyphs is preserved.
- `scaled vector`: Like `vector`, but each glyph is scaled to fit its list/table cell.

#### Font Name

The name of the font used to render glyphs in `vector` or `scaled vector` rendering mode. The 
specified font must be installed in your system. 
In order to view the two pre-defined character tables in `vector` or `scaled vector` mode, 
the following fonts can be used: [Andron Scriptor Web v. 3](http://folk.uib.no/hnooh/mufi/fonts/Andron/AND_SCR_WEB_3.0.zip) for 
the gBank characters and [BravuraText 1.12](http://www.smufl.org/files/bravura-1.12.zip) for SMuFL.

#### Glyph Size in %

The size of the rendered glyphs relative to their container (which is 40x40px)

#### Template

Specifies in which way the glyph data should be inserted into the document. For details, see [Adjusting the XML output]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2014-12-17-adjustments %})

#### Value of mapping/@type

A TEI `<char>` element may contain multiple mappings; by providing the value of a type attribute, you can select the mapping element which should be
used by GlyphPicker to display the glyphs.

#### Value of mapping/@subtype

See Value of mapping/@type

#### Parse mapping/text()

Set this checkbox when the mapping element in concern doesn't contain characters or numeric character references but strings following the scheme `U+xxxx`.

### Plugin

#### GlyphPicker keyboard shortcut

Customize the keyboard shortcut which opens the GlyphPicker panel

#### Image cache

Shows the current number of images in the plugin's image cache and provides an option to clear the cache.

#### Transfer focus after insert action

When selected, the component focus will be transferred from the glyph picker panel each time a character reference gets inserted into the XML document from the GlyphPicker plugin.
