---
layout: page
title: "Settings"
category: doc
date: 2014-12-17 21:33:40
---

### Character Tables

By default, the GlyphPicker plugin contains a list of standard data source declarations, allowing immediate access to glyph definitions specified by
the gBank and SMuFL-Browser web services, the first one containing medieval 
characters, the second one musical symbols. 
You can adjust the table configuration by selecting `Settings` in the plugin toolbar. Each table configuration contains the following fields:

#### Name

The name of the table as displayed in the main panel

#### Path to Character Declarations

The path to the XML file or web service providing the TEI character declarations

#### Glyph Renderer

Specifies which renderer to use when displaying glyphs of this table

- `bitmap`: Renders a bitmap image based on the value of the `@url` attribute of
 the character's `graphic` child element.
- `vector`: Renders a glyph vector from a system font; the relative size of all glyphs is preserved.
- `scaled vector`: Like `vector`, but each glyph is scaled to fit its list/table cell.

#### Font Name

The name of the system font used to render glyphs with the `vector` or `scaled vector`.

#### Glyph Size in %

The size of the rendered glyphs relative to their container (which is 40x40px)

#### Template

Specifies in which way the glyph data should be inserted into the document. You can specify four variables in the template:

- ${basePath}: equals the content of the `path` field
- ${id}: the xml:id of the glyph definition
- ${char}: the characters contained or referenced in the `<mapping>` element of `<char>`
- ${num}: numeric character references

Examples:

Use both base path and id to create an absolute path in order to provide the full path to the character declaration in each `<g>` element.

```
Template:
<g ref="${basePath}${id}.xml"/>

Result:
<g ref="http://edirom.de/smufl-browser/luteFrenchFretG.xml"/>
```

Set prefix and id in the ref attribute:

```
Template:
<g ref="s:${id}"/>

Result:
<g ref="s:luteFrenchFretG"/>
```
This reduces the number of characters in the `<g>` elements. The prefix can be resolved in the TEI header of the document, see http://www.tei-c.org/release/doc/tei-p5-doc/de/html/SA.html#SAPU:

```
<listPrefixDef>
 <prefixDef ident="s"
  matchPattern="([A-Za-z]+)"
  replacementPattern="http://edirom.de/smufl-browser/$1.xml">
  <p> xxx </p>
 </prefixDef>
 <prefixDef ident="g"
  matchPattern="([A-Za-z0-9]+)"
  replacementPattern="http://www.example.com/mychardecl.xml#$1">
  <p> xxx </p>
 </prefixDef>
</listPrefixDef>
```

Set only the id in the ref attribute and add a numeric character reference as text content:

```
Template:
<g ref="#${id}">${num}</g>

Result:
<g ref="#luteFrenchFretG">&#xEBC6;</g>
```
Adding characters or numeric character reference to the document may simplify displaying the characters at the cost of 'hand'-coding specific character mappings. 
Since id and character references can be altered independently, some projects might consider adding automatic text
 quality checks to be sure there are no mismatches.

The resulting XML code fragment references an element with the xml:id `luteFrenchFretG` in the same document (or included via xinclude).



#### Value of mapping/@type

A TEI `<char>` element may contain multiple mappings; by providing the value of a type attribute, you can select the mapping element which should be
used by GlyphPicker to display the glyphs.

#### Value of mapping/@subtype

See Value of mapping/@type

#### Parse mapping/text()

Set this checkbox when the mapping element in concern doesn't contain characters or numeric character references but strings following the scheme `U+xxxx`.

### Plugin

#### GlyphPicker keyboard shortcut

Customize the keyboard shortcut which opens the GlyphPicker panel

#### Image cache

Shows the current number of images in the plugin's image cache and provides an option to clear the cache.

#### Tranfer focus after insert action

When selected, the component focus will be transferred from the glyph picker panel each time a character reference gets inserted into the XML document from the GlyphPicker plugin.
